# Senior-research-on-neural-networks
### *Objective*
The objective of this research is to utilize neural network-based image recognition models and test the accuracy of the models in correctly identifying complex images such as Pokémon with relatively small amounts of training data when compared to related work.
### *Background*
Neural networks are a type of deep learning artificial intelligence algorithm that consists of three distinct layers of node: an input, hidden, and output layer. The input layer is responsible for inputting data where each node in the input layer is a different variable. The hidden layer is where different computations take place according to the input data and their associated weights. A node's weight is determined by training the model and determines what input or nodes have a priority over each other. The output layer represents the possible outcomes of the algorithm. Neural networks are regularly used for image recognition and processing. “Image recognition is the process of identifying an object or feature of an image or video” [1]. Image recognition models utilize groups of training/ test images. These images are broken up into the programmers desired categories, for example giving the model pictures of cats, birds, and fish. Using the training images, the programmer trains the image recognition model that evaluates the testing images and identifies key features that it can use to identify the image.

[1] “What Is Image Recognition?,” MathWorks. Accessed: Sep. 30, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.mathworks.com/discovery/image-recognition-matlab.html 
